README.md, before:

[![CRAN_Status_Badge](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/recordr)](http://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/recordr)

- **Author**: Peter Slaughter, Matthew B. Jones, Christopher Jones ([NCEAS](http://www.nceas.ucsb.edu))
- **License**: [Apache 2](http://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)
- [Package source code on Github](https://github.com/NCEAS/recordr)
- [**Submit Bugs and feature requests**](https://github.com/NCEAS/recordr/issues)

The recordr R package provides an automated way to capture data provenance for R scripts and
console commands without the need to modify existing R code. The provenance that is captured during
an R script execution includes information about the script that was run, files that were read and
written, and details about the execution environment at the time of execution. R code, Input files and generated files from every script execution, or "run", can be efficiently archived so that these past versions of files can be retrieved for a run in order to investigate previous versions of processing or
analysis, support reproducibilty, and provide an easy way to publish data products and all files that
contributed to those products to a data repository such as the DataONE network.

## Installation Notes 

The recordr package is not yet available via CRAN but a pre-release version of recordr and
the R packages it depends on can be installed via the NCEAS drat repository:

  $ R
  > install.packages("drat"))
  > library(drat)
  > addReport("NCEAS")
  > install.packages("recordr")"

License
-------

The `recordr` package is licensed as open source software under the Apache 2.0 license.

Authors
-------

- Peter Slaughter <slaughter@nceas.ucsb.edu>\- Matthew Jones <jones@nceas.ucsb.edu>












## Example Usage

The `redland` library can be used for a wide variety of RDF parsing and creation tasks.  Some examples
are provided in the `redland_overview` vignette.  As a quick start, here is an example that
creates an RDF graph using an in-memory storage model, adds some triples, and then
serializes the graph to disk.

```r
library(recordr)
library(uuid)

uuidTag <- UUIDgenerate()
recordr <- new("Recordr")
scriptPath <- system.file("extdata/exampleUserScript.R", package="recordr")
pkg <- record(recordr, scriptPath, tag=uuidTag)
viewRun(recordr, tag=uuidTag)

```

[![nceas_footer](https://www.nceas.ucsb.edu/files/newLogo_0.png)](http://www.nceas.ucsb.edu)

Commit message:

README typo and formatting fixes
Fixed a typo ("addRepo" not "addReport") and formatting, and noted that the package will not install without first installing the redland C libraries.

README.md, after:

[![CRAN_Status_Badge](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/recordr)](http://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/recordr)

- **Author**: Peter Slaughter, Matthew B. Jones, Christopher Jones ([NCEAS](http://www.nceas.ucsb.edu))
- **License**: [Apache 2](http://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)
- [Package source code on Github](https://github.com/NCEAS/recordr)
- [**Submit Bugs and feature requests**](https://github.com/NCEAS/recordr/issues)

The recordr R package provides an automated way to capture data provenance for R scripts and
console commands without the need to modify existing R code. The provenance that is captured during
an R script execution includes information about the script that was run, files that were read and
written, and details about the execution environment at the time of execution. R code, Input files and generated files from every script execution, or "run", can be efficiently archived so that these past versions of files can be retrieved for a run in order to investigate previous versions of processing or
analysis, support reproducibilty, and provide an easy way to publish data products and all files that
contributed to those products to a data repository such as the DataONE network.

## Installation Notes 

The recordr package is not yet available via CRAN but a pre-release version of recordr and
the R packages it depends on can be installed via the NCEAS drat repository:

```r
  $ R
  > install.packages("drat"))
  > library(drat)
  > addRepo("NCEAS")
  > install.packages("recordr")
```

Note that `recordr` depends on the [redland package](https://github.com/ropensci/redland-bindings/blob/master/R/redland/README.md), which in turn requires the redland C libraries being installed first.

License
-------

The `recordr` package is licensed as open source software under the Apache 2.0 license.

Authors
-------

- Peter Slaughter <slaughter@nceas.ucsb.edu>
- Matthew Jones <jones@nceas.ucsb.edu>


## Example Usage

The `redland` library can be used for a wide variety of RDF parsing and creation tasks.  Some examples
are provided in the `redland_overview` vignette.  As a quick start, here is an example that
creates an RDF graph using an in-memory storage model, adds some triples, and then
serializes the graph to disk.

```r
library(recordr)
library(uuid)

uuidTag <- UUIDgenerate()
recordr <- new("Recordr")
scriptPath <- system.file("extdata/exampleUserScript.R", package="recordr")
pkg <- record(recordr, scriptPath, tag=uuidTag)
viewRun(recordr, tag=uuidTag)

```

[![nceas_footer](https://www.nceas.ucsb.edu/files/newLogo_0.png)](http://www.nceas.ucsb.edu)
